# NEalgae
This project contains floristic data on desmids in selected New Hampshire and Massachusetts wetlands. 
A complete supplementary file (Fucikova_etal_TableS1.xls) includes additional information such as indicator values for individual species from Coesel (2001), calculations for the components of the desmid index, and conversion tables to calculate the desmid index in wetlands with different acidity levels. The xlsx file has multiple tabs:
- Species occurrences - this tab contains the species list from the entire study, with taxonomic authorities and relevant information about synonymy. The columns D-I contain information on presence/absence of individual species at the sites of interest (Pudding Pond, Carver Pond and Hawley Bog) at two different time points (indicated by year in the column heading, eg. HB2019 stands for Hawley Bog data collected in the present study, between years 2017 and 2019). Additional columns contain information on the size of the observed specimens and whether images are available for the species from the locality/time point. Underneath the occurrence table, the data are aggregated by genus (also presented in Genera breakdown tab), and below that calculations of Jaccard and Bray-Curtis similarity between sites are shown (also presented in Community similarity tab).
- Indicator values - this tab contains the rarity and maturity values for species present at each site/time point, as well as whether the species is on the Dutch red-list (Coesel 1998, 2001). These values are pulled from the Indicator list tab (below), provided that the species is present at the site and time (has a 1 in the Species occurrences tab). Absent species get a value of 0. Below the main table, values are summed to aid the calculation of the desmid index. Conversion table is provided underneath (also provided in Index calculations tab).
- Indicator list tab contains species indicator values from Coesel (1998). Some species were excluded from analyses because of their uncertain taxonomic status or morphological similarity to non-indicator species. This information is indicated with gray shading and notes ("excluded"). Column G indicates whether each species is listed in Coesel's compilation (1) or not (0). This information may be helpful in interpreting data from North America - some species that do not occur in the Netherlands may still have indicator potential and may need to be revisited in future studies.
- Genera breakdown tab shows the diversity of the sites aggregated by genus. These data are duplicated from the Species occurrences tab for better visibility.
- Community similarity tab shows pairwise comparisons of the desmid communities of the three sites (HB, CP and PP), each recorded at two different time points (1903/1905/1967 and 2017-2019). Number of overlapping species is shown in the topmost table, Jaccard similarity in the table below, and Bray-Curtis similarity in the bottom table. These data are duplicated from the Species occurrences tab for better visibility.
- Index calculations tab contains conversion tables for calculating the desmid index of conservation value (Coesel 2001). This information is duplicated from the Indicator values tab for better visibility. In addition, one concrete example is given to directly demonstrate how the index is determined from its components.


The file species_occurrences.csv contains the floristic data in a format parsable by R.

The R script in the src folder (historic_desmids.R) contains the community similarity analysis using the Jaccard index (based on presence/absence data) and the Sorensen (Bray-Curtis) index of similarity. The script also outlines other exploratory analyses of community similarity, namely the detrended correspondence analysis and the plotting of its results.